# FAQs

## When should you use pointer receivers or value receivers.

```go
func (self *Note) GetTitle() string {
  return self.Title
}
func (self Note) SetTitle(title string) {
  self.Title = title
}
```

### When should you use pointer receivers

#### Modify the receiver

If you want to change the state of the receiver in a method, manipulating the value of it, use a pointer receiver. It’s not possible with a value receiver, which copies by value. Any modification to a value receiver is local to that copy.

#### Optimization

If the struct you’re defining the method on is very large, copying it would be far too expensive than using a value receiver.

Value receivers operate on a copy of the original type value. This means that there is a cost involved, especially if the struct is very large, and pointer received are more efficient.

#### When value receivers are better

If you don’t need to edit the receiver value, use a value receiver.

Value receivers are concurrency safe, while pointer receivers are not concurrency safe.

#### When you should make a tradeoff

There is a situation when you might want to use pointer receivers for methods where you’d normally use a value receiver, and it’s when you have other pointer receivers defined on that type, and for consistency you should use pointer receivers across all the methods.

> See more detail from [SO](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/27775376/value-receiver-vs-pointer-receiver-in-golang)

## Should I define methods on values or pointers?

```
func (s *MyStruct) pointerMethod() { } // method on pointer
func (s MyStruct)  valueMethod()   { } // method on value
```

For programmers unaccustomed to pointers, the distinction between these two examples can be confusing, but the situation is actually very simple. When defining a method on a type, the receiver (s in the above examples) behaves exactly as if it were an argument to the method. Whether to define the receiver as a value or as a pointer is the same question, then, as whether a function argument should be a value or a pointer. There are several considerations.

First, and most important, does the method need to modify the receiver? If it does, the receiver must be a pointer. (Slices and maps act as references, so their story is a little more subtle, but for instance to change the length of a slice in a method the receiver must still be a pointer.) In the examples above, if pointerMethod modifies the fields of s, the caller will see those changes, but valueMethod is called with a copy of the caller's argument (that's the definition of passing a value), so changes it makes will be invisible to the caller.

By the way, in Java method receivers are always pointers, although their pointer nature is somewhat disguised (and there is a proposal to add value receivers to the language). It is the value receivers in Go that are unusual.

Second is the consideration of efficiency. If the receiver is large, a big struct for instance, it will be much cheaper to use a pointer receiver.

Next is consistency. If some of the methods of the type must have pointer receivers, the rest should too, so the method set is consistent regardless of how the type is used. See the section on method sets for details.

> For types such as basic types, slices, and small structs, a value receiver is very cheap so unless the semantics of the method requires a pointer, a value receiver is efficient and clear.


## Why do T and *T have different method sets?

As the [Go specification](https://golang.org/ref/spec#Types) says, the method set of a type T consists of all methods with receiver type T, while that of the corresponding pointer type *T consists of all methods with receiver *T or T. That means the method set of *T includes that of T, but not the reverse.

This distinction arises because if an interface value contains a pointer *T, a method call can obtain a value by dereferencing the pointer, but if an interface value contains a value T, there is no safe way for a method call to obtain a pointer. (Doing so would allow a method to modify the contents of the value inside the interface, which is not permitted by the language specification.)

Even in cases where the compiler could take the address of a value to pass to the method, if the method modifies the value the changes will be lost in the caller. As an example, if the Write method of bytes.Buffer used a value receiver rather than a pointer, this code:

```go
var buf bytes.Buffer
io.Copy(buf, os.Stdin)
```