# Top Questions About Go

**Table of Content**
<!-- @import "[TOC]" {cmd="toc" depthFrom=2 depthTo=2 orderedList=false} -->

<!-- code_chunk_output -->

- [Top Questions About Go](#Top-Questions-About-Go)
  - [How to efficiently concatenate strings in Go?](#How-to-efficiently-concatenate-strings-in-Go)
    - [Answers](#Answers)
  - [How to check if a map contains a key in Go?](#How-to-check-if-a-map-contains-a-key-in-Go)
    - [Answer](#Answer)
  - [How do you write multiline strings in Go?](#How-do-you-write-multiline-strings-in-Go)
    - [Answer](#Answer-1)
  - [Is there a foreach loop in Go?](#Is-there-a-foreach-loop-in-Go)
    - [Answer](#Answer-2)
  - [What is an idiomatic way of representing enums in Go?](#What-is-an-idiomatic-way-of-representing-enums-in-Go)
    - [Answer](#Answer-3)
  - [How to convert an int value to string in Go?](#How-to-convert-an-int-value-to-string-in-Go)
    - [Answer 1](#Answer-1)
    - [Answer 2](#Answer-2)
  - [Optional Parameters?](#Optional-Parameters)
    - [Answer 1](#Answer-1-1)
    - [Answer 2](#Answer-2-1)
    - [Answer 3](#Answer-3)
  - [Concatenate two slices in Go](#Concatenate-two-slices-in-Go)
    - [Answer](#Answer-4)
  - [What are the use(s) for tags in Go?](#What-are-the-uses-for-tags-in-Go)
    - [Answer](#Answer-5)
    - [Example of accessing your custom tags using reflection](#Example-of-accessing-your-custom-tags-using-reflection)
    - [Here is a list of commonly used tag keys:](#Here-is-a-list-of-commonly-used-tag-keys)
  - [Format a Go string without printing?](#Format-a-Go-string-without-printing)
    - [Answer](#Answer-6)
  - [When is the init() function run?](#When-is-the-init-function-run)
    - [Answer](#Answer-7)
  - [Why would I make() or new()?](#Why-would-I-make-or-new)
    - [Answer](#Answer-8)

<!-- /code_chunk_output -->


## How to efficiently concatenate strings in Go?

In Go, a `string` is a primitive type, which means it is read-only, and every manipulation of it will create a new string. 

So if I want to concatenate strings many times without knowing the length of the resulting string, what's the best way to do it?

The naive way would be:

```go
    s := ""
    for i := 0; i < 1000; i++ {
        s += getShortStringFromSomewhere()
    }
    return s
```

but that does not seem very efficient.

### Answers

**From Go 1.10**

```go
package main

import (
    "strings"
    "fmt"
)

func main() {
    var str strings.Builder

    for i := 0; i < 1000; i++ {
        str.WriteString("a")
    }

    fmt.Println(str.String())
}
```

- Before Go 1.10

```go    
package main

import (
    "bytes"
    "fmt"
)

func main() {
    var buffer bytes.Buffer

    for i := 0; i < 1000; i++ {
        buffer.WriteString("a")
    }

    fmt.Println(buffer.String())
}
```

## How to check if a map contains a key in Go?

### Answer

As noted by other answers, the general solution is to use an [index expression](https://golang.org/ref/spec#Index_expressions) in an [assignment](https://golang.org/ref/spec#Assignments) of the special form: 

```go
v, ok = a[x]
v, ok := a[x]
var v, ok = a[x]
var v, ok T = a[x]
```

## How do you write multiline strings in Go?

Does Go have anything similar to Python's multiline strings: 

```python
"""line 1
line 2
line 3"""
```
If not, what is the preferred way of writing strings spanning multiple lines?

### Answer

According to the [language specification](http://golang.org/doc/go_spec.html#String_literals) you can use a raw string literal, where the string is delimited by backticks instead of double quotes.

```go
`line 1
line 2
line 3`
```

## Is there a foreach loop in Go?

Is there a `foreach` construct in the Go language? Can I iterate over a slice or array using a `for`?

### Answer

http://golang.org/doc/go_spec.html#For_statements

> A "for" statement with a "range" clause iterates through all entries
> of an array, slice, string or map, or values received on a channel.
> For each entry it assigns iteration values to corresponding iteration
> variables and then executes the block.

As an example:

```go
for index, element := range someSlice {
    // index is the index where we are
    // element is the element from someSlice for where we are
}
```

If you don't care about the index, you can use `_`:

```go
for _, element := range someSlice {
    // element is the element from someSlice for where we are
}
```

The underscore, `_`, is the [*blank identifier*](https://golang.org/ref/spec#Blank_identifier), an anonymous placeholder.

## What is an idiomatic way of representing enums in Go?

I'm trying to represent a simplified chromosome, which consists of N bases, each of which can only be one of `{A, C, T, G}`.

I'd like to formalize the constraints with an enum, but I'm wondering what the most idiomatic way of emulating an enum is in Go.

### Answer

Quoting from the language specs:[Iota](http://golang.org/ref/spec#Iota)

> Within a constant declaration, the predeclared identifier iota represents successive untyped integer constants. It is reset to 0 whenever the reserved word const appears in the source and increments after each ConstSpec. It can be used to construct a set of related constants:

```go
const (  // iota is reset to 0
    c0 = iota  // c0 == 0
    c1 = iota  // c1 == 1
    c2 = iota  // c2 == 2
)

const (
    a = 1 << iota  // a == 1 (iota has been reset)
    b = 1 << iota  // b == 2
    c = 1 << iota  // c == 4
)

const (
    u         = iota * 42  // u == 0     (untyped integer constant)
    v float64 = iota * 42  // v == 42.0  (float64 constant)
    w         = iota * 42  // w == 84    (untyped integer constant)
)

const x = iota  // x == 0 (iota has been reset)
const y = iota  // y == 0 (iota has been reset)
```
> Within an ExpressionList, the value of each iota is the same because it is only incremented after each ConstSpec:

```go    
const (
    bit0, mask0 = 1 << iota, 1<<iota - 1  // bit0 == 1, mask0 == 0
    bit1, mask1                           // bit1 == 2, mask1 == 1
    _, _                                  // skips iota == 2
    bit3, mask3                           // bit3 == 8, mask3 == 7
)
```

> This last example exploits the implicit repetition of the last non-empty expression list.

----

So your code might be like

```go
const (
    A = iota
    C
    T
    G
)
```

or

```go
type Base int

const (
    A Base = iota
    C
    T
    G
)
```

if you want bases to be a separate type from int.

## How to convert an int value to string in Go?

```go
i := 123
s := string(i) 
```

s is 'E', but what I want is "123"

Please tell me how can I get "123".

And in Java, I can do in this way: 

```java
String s = "ab" + "c"  // s is "abc"
```

how can I `concat` two strings in Go?

### Answer 1

Use the [`strconv`](http://golang.org/pkg/strconv/#Itoa) package's `Itoa` function.

For example:

```go
package main

import (
    "strconv"
    "fmt"
)

func main() {
    t := strconv.Itoa(123)
    fmt.Println(t)
}
```

You can concat strings simply by `+`'   ing them, or by using the `Join` function of the [`strings`](http://golang.org/pkg/strings/#Join) package.

### Answer 2

```go   
fmt.Sprintf("%v",value);
```

If you know the specific type of value use the corresponding formatter for example `%d` for `int` 

More info - [fmt](http://golang.org/pkg/fmt/)

## Optional Parameters?

Can Go have optional parameters? Or can I just define two functions with the same name and a different number of arguments?


### Answer 1

Go does not have optional parameters [nor does it support method overloading](http://golang.org/doc/faq#overloading):

> Method dispatch is simplified if it doesn't need to do type matching as well. Experience with other languages told us that having a variety of methods with the same name but different signatures was occasionally useful but that it could also be confusing and fragile in practice. Matching only by name and requiring consistency in the types was a major simplifying decision in Go's type system.

### Answer 2

A nice way to achieve something like optional parameters is to use variadic args.  The function actually receives a slice of whatever type you specify.

```go
func foo(params ...int) {
    fmt.Println(len(params))
}

func main() {
    foo()
    foo(1)
    foo(1,2,3)
}
```

### Answer 3

For arbitrary, potentially large number of optional parameters, a nice idiom is to use **Functional options**.

For your type `Foobar`, first write only one constructor:

```go
func NewFoobar(options ...func(*Foobar) error) (*Foobar, error){
    fb := &Foobar{}
    // ... (write initializations with default values)...
    for _, op := range options{
    err := op(fb)
    if err != nil {
        return nil, err
    }
    }
    return fb, nil
}
```

where each option is a function which mutates the Foobar. Then provide convenient ways for your user to use or create standard options, for example :

```go
func OptionReadonlyFlag(fb *Foobar) error {
    fb.mutable = false
    return nil
}

func OptionTemperature(t Celsius) func(*Foobar) error {
    return func(fb *Foobar) error {
    fb.temperature = t
    return nil
    }
}
```

[Playground](http://play.golang.org/p/3HB9KJ7m2D)

For conciseness, you may give a name to the type of the options ([Playground](http://play.golang.org/p/il93GYGtFL)) :

```go
type OptionFoobar func(*Foobar) error
```

If you need mandatory parameters, add them as first arguments of the constructor before the variadic `options`.

The main benefits of the *Functional options* idiom are :

 - your API can grow over time without breaking existing code, because the constuctor signature stays the same when new options are needed.
 - it enables the default use case to be its simplest: no arguments at all!
 - it provides fine control over the initialization of complex values.

This technique was coined by [Rob Pike](https://commandcenter.blogspot.fr/2014/01/self-referential-functions-and-design.html) and also demonstrated by [Dave Cheney](https://dave.cheney.net/2014/10/17/functional-options-for-friendly-apis). 

## Concatenate two slices in Go

I'm trying to combine the slice `[1, 2]` and the slice `[3, 4]`. How can I do this in Go?

I tried:

```go
append([]int{1,2}, []int{3,4})
```

but got:

```
cannot use []int literal (type []int) as type int in append
```

However, [the documentation](http://golang.org/pkg/builtin/#append) seems to indicate this is possible, what am I missing?

```go
slice = append(slice, anotherSlice...)
```

### Answer

Add dots after the second slice:

```go
//---------------------------vvv
append([]int{1,2}, []int{3,4}...)
```

This is just like any other variadic function.

```go
func foo(is ...int) {
    for i := 0; i < len(is); i++ {
        fmt.Println(is[i])
    }
}

func main() {
    foo([]int{9,8,7,6,5}...)
}
```

## What are the use(s) for tags in Go?

In the [Go Language Specification](https://golang.org/ref/spec#Struct_types), it mentions a brief overview of tags: 

> A field declaration may be followed by an optional string literal tag,
> which becomes an attribute for all the fields in the corresponding
> field declaration. The tags are made visible through a reflection
> interface but are otherwise ignored.
> 
>     // A struct corresponding to the TimeStamp protocol buffer.
>     // The tag strings define the protocol buffer field numbers.
>     struct {
>     	microsec  uint64 "field 1"
>     	serverIP6 uint64 "field 2"
>     	process   string "field 3"
>     }

This is a very short explanation IMO, and I was wondering if anyone could provide me with what use these tags would be?

### Answer

A tag for a field allows you to attach meta-information to the field which can be acquired using reflection. Usually it is used to provide transformation info on how a struct field is encoded to or decoded from another format (or stored/retrieved from a database), but you can use it to store whatever meta-info you want to, either intended for another package or for your own use.

As mentioned in the documentation of [`reflect.StructTag`](http://golang.org/pkg/reflect/#StructTag), by convention the value of a tag string is a space-separated list of `key:"value"` pairs, for example:

    type User struct {
        Name string `json:"name" xml:"name"`
    }

The `key` usually denotes the package that the subsequent `"value"` is for, for example `json` keys are processed/used by the [`encoding/json`]

If multiple information is to be passed in the `"value"`, usually it is specified by separating it with a comma (`','`), e.g.

    Name string `json:"name,omitempty" xml:"name"`

Usually a dash value (`'-'`) for the `"value"` means to exclude the field from the process (e.g. in case of `json` it means not to marshal or unmarshal that field).

### Example of accessing your custom tags using reflection

We can use reflection ([`reflect`](https://golang.org/pkg/reflect/) package) to access the tag values of struct fields. Basically we need to aof our struct, and then we can query fields e.g. with `Type.Field(i int)` or `Type.FieldByName(name string)`. These methods return a value of [`StructField`](https://golang.org/pkg/reflect/#StructField) which describes / represents a struct field; and `StructField.Tag` is a value of type [`StructTag`] (https://golang.org/pkg/reflect/#StructTag) which describes / represents a tag value.

Previously we talked about _"convention"_. This convention means that if you follow it, you may use the [`StructTag.Get(key string)`](https://golang.org/pkg/reflect/#StructTag.Get) method which parses the value of a tag and returns you the `"value"` of the `key` you specify. The _convention_ is implemented / built into this `Get()` method. If you don't follow the convention, `Get()` will not be able to parse `key:"value"` pairs and find what you're looking for. That's also not a problem, but then you need to implement your(was added in Go 1.7) which is _"like `Get()` but distinguishes the tag not containing the given key from the tag associating an empty string with the given key"_.

So let's see a simple example:

```go
type User struct {
    Name  string `mytag:"MyName"`
    Email string `mytag:"MyEmail"`
}

u := User{"Bob", "bob@mycompany.com"}
t := reflect.TypeOf(u)

for _, fieldName := range []string{"Name", "Email"} {
    field, found := t.FieldByName(fieldName)
    if !found {
        continue
    }
    fmt.Printf("\nField: User.%s\n", fieldName)
    fmt.Printf("\tWhole tag value : %q\n", field.Tag)
    fmt.Printf("\tValue of 'mytag': %q\n", field.Tag.Get("mytag"))
}
```

Output (try it on the [Go Playground](http://play.golang.org/p/Al_m3GYl5j)):

```go
Field: User.Name
    Whole tag value : "mytag:\"MyName\""
    Value of 'mytag': "MyName"

Field: User.Email
    Whole tag value : "mytag:\"MyEmail\""
    Value of 'mytag': "MyEmail"
```
    
GopherCon 2015 had a presentation about struct tags called:

**[The Many Faces of Struct Tags (slide)](https://github.com/gophercon/2015-talks/blob/master/Sam%20Helman%20%26%20Kyle%20Erf%20-%20The%20Many%20Faces%20of%20Struct%20Tags/StructTags.pdf)** (and a [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_SCRvMunkdA))

### Here is a list of commonly used tag keys:


- `json` - used by the [`encoding/json`]led at [`json.Marshal()`](https://golang.org/pkg/encoding/json/#Marshal)
- `xml      ` - used by the [`encoding/xml`](https://golang.org/pkg/encoding/xml/) package, detailed at [`xml.Marshal()`](https://golang.org/pkg/encoding/xml/#Marshal)
- `bson     ` - used by [gobson](https://labix.org/gobson), detailed at [`bson.Marshal()`](http://godoc.org/gopkg.in/mgo.v2/bson#Marshal)
- `protobuf ` - used by [`github.com/golang/protobuf/proto`](http://godoc.org/github.com/golang/protobuf/proto), detailed in the package doc
- `yaml     ` - used by the [`gopkg.in/yaml.v2`](https://godoc.org/gopkg.in/yaml.v2) package, detailed at [`yaml.Marshal()`](https://godoc.org/gopkg.in/yaml.v2#Marshal)
- `db       ` - used by the [`github.com/jmoiron/sqlx`](https://godoc.org/github.com/jmoiron/sqlx) package; also used by [`github.com/go-gorp/gorp`][21] package
- `orm      ` - used by the [`github.com/astaxie/beego/orm`](https://godoc.org/github.com/astaxie/beego/orm) package, detailed at [Models – Beego ORM](https://beego.me/docs/mvc/model/overview.md)
- `gorm     ` - used by the [`github.com/jinzhu/gorm`](https://github.com/jinzhu/gorm) package, examples can be found in their doc: [Models](http://jinzhu.me/gorm/models.html)
- `valid    ` - used by the [`github.com/asaskevich/govalidator`](https://github.com/asaskevich/govalidator) package, examples can be found in the project page
- `datastore` - used by [`appengine/datastore`](https://cloud.google.com/appengine/docs/go/datastore/reference) (Google App Engine platform, Datastore service), detailed at [Properties](https://cloud.google.com/appengine/docs/go/datastore/reference#hdr-Properties)
- `schema   ` - used by [`github.com/gorilla/schema`](http://godoc.org/github.com/gorilla/schema) to fill a `struct` with HTML form values, detailed in the package doc
- `asn      ` - used by the [`encoding/asn1`](https://golang.org/pkg/encoding/asn1/) package, detailed at [`asn1.Marshal()`](https://golang.org/pkg/encoding/asn1/#Marshal) and [`asn1.Unmarshal()`](https://golang.org/pkg/encoding/asn1/#Unmarshal)
- `csv      ` - used by the [`github.com/gocarina/gocsv`](https://github.com/gocarina/gocsv) package


##  Format a Go string without printing?

Is there a simple way to format a string in Go without printing the string?

I can do:

```go
bar := "bar"
fmt.Printf("foo: %s", bar)
```

But I want the formatted string returned rather than printed so I can manipulate it further.

I could also do something like:

```go
s := "foo: " + bar
```

But this becomes difficult to read when the format string is complex, and cumbersome when one or many of the parts aren't strings and have to be converted first, like

```go
i := 25
s := "foo: " + strconv.Itoa(i)
```

Is there a simpler way to do this?

### Answer

[Sprintf](https://golang.org/pkg/fmt/#Sprintf) is what you are looking for.

**Example**

    fmt.Sprintf("foo: %s", bar)

You can also see it in use in the [Errors example](https://tour.golang.org/methods/19) as part of "A Tour of Go."

```go
return fmt.Sprintf("at %v, %s", e.When, e.What)
```

## When is the init() function run?

I've tried to find a precise explanation of what the `init()` function does in Go. I read what [Effective Go](https://golang.org/doc/effective_go.html#init) says but I was unsure if I understood fully what it said. The exact sentence I am unsure is the following:

> And finally means finally: init is called after all the variable declarations in the package have evaluated their initializers, and those are evaluated only after all the imported packages have been initialized.

What does `all the variable declarations in the package have evaluated their initializers` mean? Does it mean if you declare "global" variables in a package and its files, init() will not run until all of it is evaluated and then it will run all the init function and then main() when ./main_file_name is ran?

I also read Mark Summerfield's go book the following:

> If a package has one or more init() functions they are automatically executed before the main package's main() function is called.

In my understanding, `init()` is only relevant when you run intend to run main() right? or the Main package. Anyone understands more precisely `init()` feel free to correct me

### Answer

Yes assuming you have [this](http://play.golang.org/p/dvHymTy73F):

```go
var WhatIsThe = AnswerToLife()

func AnswerToLife() int {
    return 42
}

func init() {
    WhatIsThe = 0
}

func main() {
    if WhatIsThe == 0 {
        fmt.Println("It's all a lie.")
    }
}
```

`AnswerToLife()` is guaranteed to run before `init()` is called, and `init()` is guaranteed to run before `main()` is called.

Keep in mind that `init()` is always called, regardless if there's main or not, so if you import a package that has an `init` function, it will be executed.


Additionally, you can have multiple `init()` functions per package; they will be executed in the order they show up in the file (after all variables are initialized of course). If they span multiple files, they will be executed in lexical file name order (as pointed out by [@benc](https://stackoverflow.com/users/2039413/benc)):

> It seems that `init()` functions are executed in lexical file name order. The Go spec says "build systems are encouraged to present multiple files belonging to the same package in lexical file name order to a compiler". It seems that `go build` works this way.

A lot of the internal Go packages use `init()` to initialize tables and such, for example https://github.com/golang/go/blob/883bc6/src/compress/bzip2/bzip2.go#L480

## Why would I make() or new()?

The introduction documents dedicate many paragraphs to explaining the difference between `new()` and `make()`, but in practice, you can create objects within local scope and return them.

Why would you use the pair of allocators?

### Answer

Go has multiple ways of memory allocation and value initialization:

<code>&T{...}</code>, <code>&someLocalVar</code>, <code>new</code>, <code>make</code>

Allocation can also happen when creating composite literals.

---

<code>new</code> can be used to allocate values such as integers, <code>&int</code> is illegal:

    new(Point)
    &Point{}      // OK
    &Point{2, 3}  // Combines allocation and initialization

    new(int)
    &int          // Illegal

    // Works, but it is less convenient to write than new(int)
    var i int
    &i

The difference between <code>new</code> and <code>make</code> can be seen by looking at the following example:

    p := new(chan int)   // p has type: *chan int
    c := make(chan int)  // c has type: chan int

Suppose Go does not have <code>new</code> and <code>make</code>, but it has the built-in function <code>NEW</code>. Then the example code would look like this:

    p := NEW(*chan int)  // * is mandatory
    c := NEW(chan int)

The <code>*</code> *would be mandatory*, so:

    new(int)        -->  NEW(*int)
    new(Point)      -->  NEW(*Point)
    new(chan int)   -->  NEW(*chan int)
    make([]int, 10) -->  NEW([]int, 10)

    new(Point)  // Illegal
    new(int)    // Illegal

Yes, merging <code>new</code> and <code>make</code> into a single built-in function is possible. However, it is probable that a single built-in function would lead to more confusion among new Go programmers than having two built-in functions.

Considering all of the above points, it appears more appropriate for <code>new</code> and <code>make</code> to remain separate.